---
permalink: /cv/
title: "CV"
excerpt: "Summary of my work experience and education."
layout: single
last_modified_at: 2019-09-08T16:06:43-04:00
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
---

## Skills

| ESRI                | Other Geospatial    | Programming |
| :-----------------: | :-----------------: | :---------: |
| ArcGIS Pro          | Web Mapping         | R           |
| ArcGIS Desktop      | Google Earth Engine | HTML/CSS    |
| ArcGIS Online       | QGIS                | Javascript  |
| Story Maps          | ERDAS               | Python      |
| Collector/Survey123 | ENVI                | Markdown    | 

## Education 

### Master of Science
<sub><sup>[**University of Michigan School for Environment and Sustainability**](https://seas.umich.edu) -- <i class="fa fa-map-marker"></i> Ann Arbor, MI -- <i class="fa fa-calendar" aria-hidden="true"></i> 2015-2017 </sup></sub>

*Environmental Informatics and Conservation Ecology*
  
Students in environmental informatics learn to develop and use spatially explicit analytical and computer-based methods to assess and protect the Earth’s natural resources.  Students in conservation ecology learn the fundamental concepts and tehcniques necessary for the study of ecosystems, in order to reverse environmental damages.

<details>
  <summary>Classes</summary>
  
* Principles of GIS
* Remote Sensing
* GIS and Remote Sensing of Environmental Disturbances
* Python for GIS
* Applied Ecosystem Modeling
* Ecological Models and Statistical Inference
* Ecosystem Services
* Ecological Restoration
* Forest Ecology
* Landscape Ecology
* Climate Adaptation
</details>

### Bachelor of Science
<sub><sup>[**Virginia Tech**](https://www.bse.vt.edu) -- <i class="fa fa-map-marker"></i> Blacksburg, VA -- <i class="fa fa-calendar" aria-hidden="true"></i> 2006-2010 </sup></sub>

*Biosystems Engineering*
  
Students in biosystems engineering learn principles of biology, chemistry, physics, and engineering and how to apply them to environmental problems.

<details>
  <summary>Classes</summary>
  
* Biology
* Microbiology
* Physics
* Organic Chemistry
* Physical Chemistry
* Soils
* Thermodynamics of Biological Systems
* Fluid Mechanics
* Land and Water Resources Engineering
* Nonpoint Source Pollution Modeling and Management
* Watershed Engineering
* GIS and CAD for Land and Water Resource Engineers
* Electrical Theory
</details>

## Work experience

### Cartographer
<sub><sup>[**National Park Service**](https://www.nps.gov/seki) -- <i class="fa fa-map-marker"></i> Three Rivers, CA -- <i class="fa fa-calendar" aria-hidden="true"></i> 2018-Present</sup></sub>

I built web maps, story maps, and paper maps for projects related to soundscapes, forest resilience, fire history, special use permits, wildlife ranges, and recreation.  Some examples of maps for public use:

* Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks Soundscape Story Map (Web)
* Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks Sound Library (Web)
* Wedding Locations at Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Park (Web)

<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
  
In addition to making maps, I managed geospatial and multimedia data using ArcGIS Pro and ArcGIS Desktop.  I edited data for inclusion in an .SDE.  I published data to ArcGIS Online and the NPS data store.  I built data collection tools and collected data using Collector and Survey123 for ArcGIS.  I wrote R scripts to automatically process and generate data, edited multimedia (audio/video), and authored content for visitor centers, the park website, and interpretive programs.  Through cross-training, I participated in field data collection and equipment maintenance for soundscape, air quality, and water quality projects.
</details>

### Graduate Student Instructor
<sub><sup>[**University of Michigan School for Environment and Sustainability**](https://seas.umich.edu) -- <i class="fa fa-map-marker"></i> Ann Arbor, MI -- <i class="fa fa-calendar" aria-hidden="true"></i> 2016-2017 </sup></sub>

I taught the lab section of a graduate level Principles of GIS course to 60 students over 2 semesters. 

<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
  
In the classroom I introduced lab concepts, answered questions about class concepts, oversaw independent lab work, and helped troubleshoot common (and uncommon) student errors.  To prepare each lab, I met weekly with the class professor, evaluated and prepared spatial data for student use, edited lab instruction documents to relect changes generated by GIS software updates, produced a weekly slide show highlighting key skills utilized, and created example map outputs.  In addition to hosting office hours for teacher-student interaction, I evaluated student work weekly. Feedback included quantitative grading of lab reports and qualitative comments on map outputs.
</details>

### Master's Opus
<sub><sup>[**Center for Alaskan Coastal Studies**](https://www.akcoastalstudies.org) -- <i class="fa fa-map-marker"></i> Homer, AK -- <i class="fa fa-calendar" aria-hidden="true"></i> 2016-2017 </sup></sub>

I and four other team members planned, organized, and completed an ecological inventory and management plan for a project designed to serve as a master's thesis.

<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
  
My primary role on the project was building a GIS dataset. I was responsible for organizing GPS data collection with Garmin devices, used for delineating trails, habitat types, camera traps, and wildlife observations.  I produced most maps for the management plan using GPS data collected onsite and other sources of publicly available GIS data.
</details>

### Research Assistant
<sub><sup>[**University of Michigan Environmental Research Lab**](https://esa.seas.umich.edu) -- <i class="fa fa-map-marker"></i> Ann Arbor, MI -- <i class="fa fa-calendar" aria-hidden="true"></i> 2016 </sup></sub>

I performed GIS technician duties for an environmental research lab.

<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
  
I analyzed feasibility for the department to upgrade to ArcGIS Pro.  I also built geodatabases for projects related to land management and environmental research.
</details>

### Communications Research Assistant
<sub><sup>[**Michigan Sea Grant**](https://www.michiganseagrant.org) -- <i class="fa fa-map-marker"></i> Ann Arbor, MI -- <i class="fa fa-calendar" aria-hidden="true"></i> 2015-2016 </sup></sub>

I developed content for outreach materials related to Great Lakes oriented scientific research, fisheries, water pollution, and environmental education.

<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
  
I read academic journal articles and other published material in order to update fact sheets published by Michigan Sea Grant that centered on Great Lakes science and economics. I also created and edited content for the Michigan Sea Grant web site, contributed to grant proposals, and performed other miscellaneous office tasks.
</details>

### Operations Assistant
<sub><sup>[**Healthy Harvest Foodbank**](https://www.hhfb.org) -- <i class="fa fa-map-marker"></i> Warsaw, VA -- <i class="fa fa-calendar" aria-hidden="true"></i> 2015 </sup></sub>

I contributed to the daily operations of a non-profit organization dedicated to equitable distribution of food to community members in need.

<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
  
I coordinated gleaning activities at local farms to collect fresh produce that would otherwise go to waste.  I packaged deliveries to go out to individual food pantries, which involved sorting, organizing, and packing canned goods, dry goods, fresh produce, frozen meat, and dairy products.  I drove a box-truck to deliver 4-8 palettes worth of food to individual food pantries.  During these activities I routinely oversaw the work of volunteer groups, ranging in size from 1 to 20.
</details>

### Coastal Resource Management Volunteer
<sub><sup>[**U.S. Peace Corps**](https://www.peacecorps.gov) -- <i class="fa fa-map-marker"></i> Romblon, Philippines -- <i class="fa fa-calendar" aria-hidden="true"></i> 2012-2014 </sup></sub>

I lived in small fishing village, working with community fisherfolk to manage coastal resources including coral reefs, mangrove forests, and sea grass beds.

<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
  
My primary project was serving as a marine sanctuary management advisor. Duties included inventory and monitoring of coral reef and mangrove forests, organizational development, and drafting of plans and ordinances.  Together with local government representatives, I also helped register thousands of community members as federally recognized fisherfolk - making them eligible for government services and assistance programs.  For a secondary project in my community, I worked with the local Agriculture Officer and Nutritionist to establish a backyard gardening and vermiculture program targeting mothers with children at risk of malnutrition. We provided seeds, worms, and field guidance to dozens of program participants.  With the local Agriculture Officer, I also helped host a farmer's field school in which local farmers shared challenges and success stories in their own rice paddies and coconut stands.  I assisted other volunteers with their own resource management and education projects, including a summer camp focused on agriculture in the community. The camp targeted second year college students and taught sustainable farming practices.  At a higher level, I worked with a provincial level tourism office, to collect GPS data for a provincial natural park.
</details>

## Awards and Certificates


| Certificate	| Awarding Organization |	Date |
| :------------------------------ | :----------------------: | :---------: |
| Cartography. |	ESRI |	May 21, 2019 |
| **Outstanding Recent Alumni in Academia**	| Virginia Tech |	March 22, 2019 |
| Do-It-Yourself Geo Apps	| ESRI |	March 4, 2019 |
| Basics of JavaScript Web Apps |	ESRI |	October 3, 2018 |
| Wilderness First Aid |	SOLO |	April 27, 2018 |
| Regression Analysis Using ArcGIS |	ESRI |	December 7, 2017 |
| Classifying Imagery Using ArcGIS |	ESRI |	October 24, 2017 |
| **Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor** |	University of Michigan |	April 17, 2017 |
| Python Scripting for Map Automation |	ESRI |	February 10, 2017 |
| Python Scripting for Geoprocessing Workflows |	ESRI |	February 7, 2017 |
| CPR/First Aid |	Red Cross |	December 15, 2016 |
| Getting Started with ArcGIS Pro |	ESRI |	May 18, 2016 |
| Integrating Data in ArcGIS Pro |	ESRI |	May 18, 2016 |
| **Paul D. Coverdell Fellowship** |	University of Michigan |	June, 2015 |
